Thank you and greetings to all the accomplished
men and women here. A salute is in order to
us, the Class of 2014, as well as the graduates
of the School of Theology. We've done things
and accomplished stuff.
On the last day of classes this semester,
a humbling unexpected experience happened
to me. At the epicenter of existentialism
— during the who am I, where am I going
phase in our lives as seniors — I walked
into my last collegiate course and my professor
handed me a blue notebook. I had left it behind
in a course I had taken with him three years ago.
ago. He found it in the midst of an end-of-the-year
clean sweep and put it on his desk, meaning
of course, to return it to me. But in the rush and business
of academia, it disappeared under piles of
books, papers and other lofty objects.
Two weeks ago he found it again and handed
it to me. The notebook in question was the
journal and collected works from my intro
to creative writing course, an exploration
in writing essays, short stories and poetry.
The notebook, filled with melodrama and the
occasional stick figure doodle, belonged in
a fireplace to be reduced to ash and never
read from again. But after opening these pages
I didn't want to burn it nor erase its existence:
I wanted to remember.
Reading it had the effect of looking at an
awkward high school photo. A cringe-worthy
but ultimately delightful glimpse at a time
long ago that was dominated by braces, puberty
and angst. This process of looking back at
the good, the bad and the pubescent allows
for reflection.
Those pages captured my story as a freshman.
Who were we then? What did we think about,
what were our concerns, what was going to
happen? Many of us hadn't chosen majors yet
or been able to grasp the meaning of the abundant
acronyms used by our school.
Many of us had not met each other. I re-read
my experiences, able to recognize what my
next three years would bring. So-and-so weren't
dating yet, we haven't left the country to
study abroad, I hadn't broken the window in
the entrance of Lottie.
It was just a clumsy accident, no alcohol was involved or anything like that.
We had not been offered jobs, bought plane
tickets, leased apartments. "Star Wars Episode
VII" wasn't real yet, Snapchat didn't exist
and President Hemesath wasn't here.
Had the notebook found its way to me any earlier,
it would probably not have caught my interest
nor inspired such significant nostalgia. These
things just have to happen at the right time.
What has transpired in our time at St. John's?
I've heard many classmates say "freshman year
feels like only yesterday." We might not feel
like we've been here very long at all. Time
is hard to measure and understand while attempting
to stay in the now.
As seniors we're afforded the opportunity
of looking back but find it bittersweet to
do so knowing our time here is over. Recognition
of what meant most to us comes a bit too late,
but never late enough to prevent our appreciation.
St. John's allowed us tremendous opportunity
and even greater rewards if we were willing
to immerse ourselves into its diverse community.
Our opportunities on campus — in and outside
of the classroom — expected us to present
our own thoughts and ideas passionately and
honestly. Seniors in our class answered that
call.
Collectively, we have organized and performed
charity work, filmed documentaries on the
nature of our diverse world, competed in national
athletic competitions, rallied to save club
teams and communal spaces of living, confronted
issues of gender, sexuality and discrimination,
created works of theater and art, and done
much more that impacted the student body and
other communities, as well.
I don't need to explain the unique and prideful
attachment we have to our school, and I don't
need to pass any wisdom or lessons learned
onto you either. I simply need to thank you
and to challenge you. A Johnnie is more than
a courteous door-holder; Johnnies support
each other's efforts to impact the world around
them.
You've all left a profound impact on me as
an individual, on our community, and on the
world at large. The challenge doesn't end
when we leave, and the memory and gratitude
shouldn't fade either. We can continue to
support each other and the home we once shared
by continuing to cherish it by fostering its
continual growth.
My time at St. John's is one of the greatest
experiences I will ever have. I've had the
good fortune of knowing some of the bravest
and most honest friends I could ever have
naively hoped for. I thank you for your time,
I thank you for the memories. I wish you all
the best of luck.